We want to learn how to apply filters on our new report page.
So talking about filters, we have to differentiate between three filter types in Power BI desktop.
We have the report level filter, the page level filter and the visual level filter.
Now to understand what that is,
I think the best way is if we simply apply each of those filters right now. The first filter that we want
to try is the report level filter,
you can find it on each page of the report
and if you then look to the visualizations column in the filter area, you can see that report level filter
right here
and also the page level filter of course, the only thing you can't find right here is the visual level
filter at the moment because we didn't select a visualization, so it cannot be displayed.
Now back to the report level filter.
What if I apply such a filter right now and let's say I want to apply a filter regarding the years, so
I only want to select a specific range of years in our slicers and by that, only the specific range of
years should be displayed in that report and I'm saying report because this should refer to the entire
report,
so all of the pages.
Now let's try that by going to the fields column, FACT-Population table and selecting the year again and I'm
dragging it to the report level filters area right here, like this. If I now scroll down, we can
see that we can set a filter type. At the moment we selected the advanced filtering,
this is the filter that we will need
but I can show you the other filter type also,
this is the basic filtering right here
and if you now scroll down, you can now decide on what years should be able to be displayed in that report
but we won't use that right now,
so let's go back to the advanced filtering right here.
Now what I want to do is I want to say that if the year is less than or equal, so this was quite fast,
so I clicked this right here, less than or equal
2040 and the second condition,
you can define if it's AND or OR of course
and if it is greater than let's say 1980 and let's apply that filter now and minimize that
and if we now go back to our slicer and click to the right, we can see that we limited it to 2040 right
here
and if we click to the left, you can also see that we limited it to 1980 and the great thing right now
is that if we go to the overview right here, the same thing happened with that slicer, although we didn't
work on that page.
But as you can see, if we now click right here, it is also limited back to our regions and age groups
page
and this was the report level filter now.
So the important takeaway is if you set a filter like that, it is set for the entire report.
Now let's take a look at the page level filter,
this one right here.
What would be a good page level filter,
so a filter that only is active for the page where you decide that you want to have that filter,
so in our case, this page?
Now if I look at the overview page right here and at the right visualization, I think that we might
want to exclude Oceania from our detailed analysis because it has the smallest population.
If you want to do something like that, you can go back to the regions and age groups page and now say you
want to filter the page level by selecting the region right here in the DIM-Region table, dragging it right
there and now apply that basic filtering.
So you could again choose the advanced filtering but we don't need that right here. If you now select all
countries and now unselect Oceania and minimize that, then you can see that Oceania can no longer be
selected in that region
name slicer right here.
If I go back to the overview page of course, like this, then Oceania is still here because the filter
only applies to the page
where you set the filter. So we have the report level filter,
we have the page level filter,
now we have to take a look at the last filter type, the visual level filter and I selected the treemap
right now because I would like to limit the amount of countries displayed here to the top 10 countries.
To do that, we select the visualization, go to the visualization columns and now we can see that we have
already some filters right here
but both are selected to all,
so basically we don't filter anything at the moment
and if you click on to that arrow right here, like that and don't apply that basic filtering and also not an
advanced filtering but a top end filtering, like this, then just scrolling down,
you can define if you want to see the top or the bottom.
Now ok is the top and let's say 10, like this. The only thing you have to say now is what you want to
see,
so you want to see the top 10 countries,
we know that but by what?
So we need a value and this value in our case is the population again, so we can scroll down,
we don't need to scroll down,
we can simply select population right here and drag it to the value fields, like this.
Now nothing changed, right, because we have to press Apply Filter right here.
If we do that, we can now see that our treemap changed and only shows the top 10 countries and we can
click for the regions of course
and this changes dynamically which is really nice
I think, let's click here.
So we now talk about filters and we also created a new report page with some more visualizations. In
the next two videos,
I want to show you some more interesting visualizations.
Let's start in the next video with cards.